EHR Application:
1.On launch page show two button: Patient , Provider
- If user Click on Patient, show the patient Login for below that Registration, Forgot Password link will be there.
- Same for provider.
 
Patient system:
Register and login module for Patient & Provider:
Create a User table which has Id, FirstName,LastName DateOfBirth, UserName, Gender, BloodGroup, Address, City, State, PinCode,User Type(Patient/Provider as per the 
registration form) columns.(This is for the Patient)
There will be few additional column need to add on User table specific to Provider, that will allow null entry. Following are the column :
These fields are required while Provider's Registration:
Qualification
Specialisation (Keep Master table for this with id- e.g Cardiologist, Oncologist,Ophthalmologist etc.)
Registration number (varcher)
Visiting Charge
 
The username should be generated by the System. the username will start with PT for Patient & PR for Provider, followed by underscore then firstname and first letter of last 
name and ddmmyy format of dob. the username should be in all capital letters. Example: If the Patient's firstname is Pawan, LastName is Shamrma and DOB is 01/02/2000 then 
the username should be PT_PawanP010200.
 
Example: If the Provider firstname is Pawan, LastName is Shamrma and DOB is 01/02/2000 then the username should be PR_PawanP010200.
 
Once register, the patient will login using Username and password. Which we shared in Welcome Email.
 
- Username will be unique for patient & Provider.
Username and Password should be saved in encrypted form in database.
  
In the login screen there should be an option of Forgot Password, when user wants to do this on new screen or popup should come asking for email , user should put their 
email then validate this email is it in the system or not if not then say something like invalid email if it is correct then send 8 digits random string to his/her email 
as password.
 
Once the registration is done, the user can login.
The login will be done using username and password along with 2FA(2 factor authentication) , when Username and password are correct then 6 digits random string should get
sent to user's registered mobile number as an OPT and save string should gets saved in database for matching it, if user puts correct OTP they they should get logged 
in(jwt is must) There should be a botton for logout and token should ge cleared in logout.
 
There should be an option to show user's profile image in right side of header on click of it user profile and change password options should be there, user should be able 
to update their profile with all the mentioned field. Onclick of change password one popup should be there asking new password and confirm new password both should be same
When patient Login in the application they are able to see the Appointment listing, if he has any appointment scheduled else it will be Empty

- Add Appointment button: When patient clicks on the button new Page will open where Add Appointment form will be there with following field:
Speciality(dropdown coming from master)
Provider (Dropdown, it will get filter as per the Speciality selection & of type Provider from User table. If no Speciality is selected then show all Providers list)
--need to undertand
Date Picker(Only Today & future dates are allowed)
Time Picker(Only 1hr onward from current time get selected) e.g if current time is 1pm then in time picker we will able to select 2pm onward time for selected date.
Chief complaint (Text box to add the complain)
Add Button to save the appointment.
Stripe payment gateway should be integrated here
- If valid then save the details then show success message, save the information in Appointment table with status as "Scheduled" and send the Email to Patient & Provider 
both for the Appointment schedule.
Appointment edit and cancelled options should be there and respective mails should get send for both the parties
Appointment can not be edit if it is completed and passed the date.

2.Provider Login:
- If provider Login in App, show the Dashboard with the Upcoming Appointment listing(if no appointment is schedule then display "No Appointment found"). And Add Appointment
 button. Upcoming appointment need to display from Appointment table (will find schema below the explanation). Only Todays & future Appointment will come whose status is 
"Scheduled". Also display the Go To Appointment button in list.
 
- Add Appointment button: When Provider clicks on the button new Page will open where Add Appointment form will be there with following field:
Patient list(display dropdown for all patient type from User table)
Date Picker(Only Today & future dates are allowed)
Time Picker(Only 1hr onward from current time get selected) e.g if current time is 1pm then in time picker we will able to select 2pm onward time for selected date.
Chief complaint (Text box to add the complain)
Add Button to save the appointment.
- If valid then save the details then show success message, save the information in Appointment table with status as "Scheduled" and send the Email to Patient & Provider both 
for the Appointment schedule.
 
Follwoing are the table schema for this module:

Appointment table:
Id (Pk)
Patient id(fk)
Provider id
Appointment Date
Appointment time
Chief complaint
Appointment Status (value will be - Scheduled, Completed)
Fee
  
- When Provider click on Go To Appointment button, display the new page where we display the Patient information:
Profile image, name, Age,Gender, Appointment Date, Appointment time Chief complaint added at the time of appointment schedule.
Take 4 text areas for SOAP notes(Understand this from Google) all are mandatory fields.
When user click on Complete Appointment button, the status of Appointment gets updated in Appointment table as "Completed"

Patient and provider both can view completed appointment with SOAP notes but can not edit it 
Patient and provide can chat with each other only those patients can chat who has any appointment with provider, whenever anyone sends any message notifiaction should be 
shown same as we have in SKYPE/TEAMS, Google Firebase should be used for chat